[Music]
[Applause]
what is up everybody welcome to another
episode of after impact I'm your host
Tom bill you and I am here with the
immeasurably talented Agent Smith mr.
bill you what is up dude
I was gone he's going very well my
friend you've done the equivalent of a
marathon in QA over the last week yeah
because if people don't know he's done a
24-hour live in Pakistan with you last
Wednesday 24 hours of QA and then you
were in London because you know you hop
on a plane to London right now yeah and
you do nine hours of Q&A at a meet-up
yeah yeah and I'll be honest like I
actually feel it in my throat yeah
so I can hear it like I'm I don't know
if people that don't know my voice as
well as I know it can tell but yeah it's
like a little gravelly and weird and I
woke up so not the the first bit of
sleep that I got post 24 hour impact
Athan was on the plane on the way to
London I didn't feel anything after that
but then the next night when I woke up I
had the worst headache but it was
emanating from like the roof of my mouth
which is yeah like strange it was very
weird so first I didn't make the
connection but then like as I tried to
talk I found that it was actually I was
having to really like push so I thought
well this would be interesting doing the
Q&A and then the clock the 9:00 hour QA
was which by the way anybody watching
this that was there in London at the Q&A
thank you so much that was amazing
like it was dude it was legit because
there was seating and everything and it
wasn't like standing where people sort
of get a bit fidgety yeah there were a
lot of people that stayed and the final
group cuz there's always like one core
group that stays like until literally
we're just sort of standing around and
nobody has any more questions there was
I don't know like I think 12 people made
it outside so by then we'd probably
already been going for I don't know six
or seven hours and then it dwindled down
until there's I think probably five or
six people that finally like okay if
there's no more questions I'm gonna tab
goes to you for the endurance well kudos
to this community dude it was it was
just amazing it was such a the 24 hour
men that there were people that watch
that whole thing I did not expect that
I'll be real
with the cage cage it's in the house
30-plus hours up watching every hour of
the 24 hour impact on and spotting all
the Easter eggs which if I'm honest I
thought no one's gonna yeah I don't know
how long it's gonna take people I
thought it would end up being collective
like they'd have to get together and be
like okay I saw three there was so
subtle yeah he had all of them it was
amazing within like an hour after we
stopped it was bonkers it was crazy so
yeah all right well we should probably
dive into let's dive into an impact real
quick before we do that we have a couple
people who won prizes during our impact
on but have not come forward to claim
them yet really going to see if maybe
they're listening to this
Devon Healey won a tools of titans book
so Devon if you're out there send an
email the connected impact Theory will
make sure that gets to you and Kristy
Ratliff won some IT swag nice all right
let us know we'll come forward get you
good eats leaves come forward welcome
everyone to after impact today we're
live on Facebook and YouTube oh snap
even I didn't know that yes welcome
youtubers feel free to put your comments
in the comments box your questions that
you have for Tom about this episode
hopefully you've watched it if you
haven't I'll give you a quick background
on bassem youssef he is known as the Jon
Stewart of Egypt and he is a comedian
writer actor physician physician turned
actor and comedian which will get into
the usual mix yeah of course that's a
common trajectory he hosted a satirical
news program called the show from 2011
to 2014 in Egypt and this is during the
Egyptian revolution of 2011 and then all
of the regime changes that happened
thereafter and he had death threats on
his life because of the show that he was
doing which was unprecedented at that
time and he has also been named since
then one of the 100 most influential
people in the world just a very
interesting person so if you haven't
seen the episode check it out and dig
into his world we'll kick it off with a
question before we do if this is
providing value to you please share it
on Facebook don't think you can share it
on YouTube yet maybe you can if you can
do it
helps us grow our community which is
what we're trying to do right now is
reach more people with this content and
help them change their lives so first
question is its we'll get into how
humble he is but I want to talk about
how in the very beginning of the episode
he's telling the story of how he got
involved in making the show and he very
quickly glosses over the fact that when
the revolution started he went into the
streets to help people who were hurt
yeah so I just joined other doctors to
go help people like that decision alone
is a big one right I'm sure not every
doctor was out there helping people he
was putting himself in danger what do
you think motivated him at that time and
where do you think he draws his courage
from ah man so this is sort of my
fantasy question because I want to talk
about him without the self deflection
that he does so eloquently in the
episode and look I get it like he's he's
a really humble guy and as you peel the
layers you realize in his mind like he
equates suffering with like heroism so
because he only ended up in exile which
by the way seems pretty gnarly to me
yeah but he didn't end up in prison for
years like some of the other people like
he just can't allow himself to say that
what he did was heroic and I fully get
that but from the outside to me the
heroism as to do with risk more than it
has to do with outcome and he took
catastrophic risks like it was crazy
when you really dive into how much he
made himself sort of the figurehead for
people that were standing up to what was
going on right he was like the lightning
rod now that ended up protecting him a
little bit and I think that's why he
didn't go to prison like some of the
other people but it certainly made him
the target so when he decides that he's
gonna go out into the streets and help
people I you're right
already that's like real physical danger
people are I mean tanks are rolling up
there I can't remember how many people
were killed but there were a lot of
people killed during this time and there
were people getting injured every day
there were people dying every day I mean
it was really pretty crazy and I think
that some part of him and he talks about
this in the episode but he said
you know you really do like you live
let's say 30 40 years with the regime
nothing's changing there's no sense of
hope whatsoever and you just put your
head down and I think he really wanted
to be a part of what was going on and as
the you know the uprising really began
to sweep through I think there were
people that in him being one of them
were very aware that this was history in
the making and so he wanted to be a part
of that he wanted to be in the mix and
he had started to go out the day that it
kicked off and his wife was like you
literally just had a baby two weeks ago
or something and she's like there's no
way you're going onto the streets right
now but by the next day he just could
not contain himself he had to be a part
of what was going on and that's a really
interesting trait in people in general I
think there are just some people that
are so aware that something momentous is
happening that they want to go feel that
energy and be a part of it and then when
they get there realizing that they
really want to be of use and I don't
think we talked about this in the
episode but in the research I saw him
talk about it
at first he tried being one of the
people hurling rocks and stuff like that
and he ended up hitting somebody uh his
own side and so he was like yeah I'm
gonna stick to helping people who have
been injured rather than create more
injuries and he's he's a really
fascinating mix of a human being of
being a heart surgeon wanting to help
and really finding his way of helping
and I hope people really do go research
him more because we just weren't able to
cover everything in the episode but that
like even that decision was was
intimately him right to not throw rocks
to not be one of the sort of violent
revolutionaries but to facilitate it in
the way that his skillset allowed yeah
and it was really insightful of him to
go and do that and just bring it to the
tactical for our audience what what's a
way let's say in another scenario where
someone's trying to find a way to help
right maybe help another business maybe
help a cause like how do you assess what
your strengths are and then find out how
to apply them
well how it's a great question
especially because for anybody watching
this in the future this is all happening
right now as Houston is essentially
sinking yeah and I've thought about that
like I got read
doubt to buy one of our community
members and he was like please like go
ask people to donate or do something and
I just thought how do I connect to that
and like a real authentic way where I'm
not just like telling people to go do
something but then I'm not doing
anything because I don't even know like
how to get back to that like because so
here's how I would do it and I am
literally processing this out loud so
what is my skill set my skill set is
being able to motivate and inspire but I
do that by leading from the front so
like I'm super uncomfortable talking
about something and motivating people to
do something that I'm not doing yeah so
for me and like if I were gonna do this
it would be okay my my skill set is a
willingness to suffer like when
something aligns with my goals to go out
and just really [__] dive in go hard
be willing to break myself in half to do
that so in a moment like that like if
there was an alignment for me it would
be to go out and do that work hard like
he did right to go out and know like the
the coral it isn't exact because he's
literally a surgeon and so the the
obvious answer to help in a time of
revolution where people are getting
injured is you go and you say okay my
skill set is I can repair these people
right you go you help you try to create
like this moment of healing because he
would he would help people from either
side right so it wasn't even that he was
picking a side in that he was trying to
show like the compassion and all that
and then watching him and I know that
I'm going sort of far afield from what
you asked but this is helping me process
it so he starts with just sewing people
back up but then as he as the revolution
continues and it stretches out and he
and his friend er creating this
satirical show he realizes on the web
first he realizes that he can actually
go document it and bring something
useful from the revolution in that way
and he's so he faces what would be I'm
sure quite terrifying faces that fear
goes into the middle of it is
interviewing people trying to make light
of it trying to help them laugh to
overcome some of the fear so it really
you see him identify the two different
skill sets that he has and then go bring
those to bear so it's it's really
fascinating the only way for me I
to meaningfully do something in Houston
would literally be to put everything on
hold here to fly out there and to lead
from the front in that way and then come
back and talk about it and that's why I
have balked at saying anything because I
am not comfortable unless it's like I
was there I was doing it you know I'm in
the thick of it and all that and yeah so
being honest about what's real for you I
think is is super important to be
incredibly authentic and so to draw the
parallel back to the episode him
throwing the rock was not authentic
right that's not him but him like really
helping people that are in physical
distress that really is him him trying
to find people help people find a way to
laugh in the midst of fear that really
is him right so that's him sort of
clicking into that authentic way to do
something and so that's I think people
really have to like forget like what the
world wants you to do and really think
about like what is real and authentic
for me and then engage in that and that
isn't easy yeah
like one cuz I think people get into
judging themselves because they think
they should be the way that the world is
saying this is like the appropriate way
to handle this and they get caught up
there but if you can get past that
identify the way that feels right do
that and just contribute in that way
yeah it's interesting too it reminds me
of and I think this is from barking up
the wrong tree which I'm reading now by
Erik Barker but correct me if I'm wrong
because you've read it as well he talks
about how Toyota was sending its
employees as part of a program to go
help out at soup kitchens and food banks
every year and then they decided that
there would be a better way for them to
help and they sent their engineering
team in and had them break down like the
processes and you know they were going
from packing boxes of canned foods in 11
seconds to like 0.6 seconds or something
or their soup kitchen was feeding X
amount more people because they were
able to just do everything more
efficiently now it was a really that was
fascinating it was a great example of
applying the skills that you have I'm so
glad you brought that up so this is
something that is like a stoic
philosopher concept that dr. drew talked
about in his episode and he said it he
literally used the example of a soup
kitchen and he's like it is not going to
bring you much sense of fulfillment to
go to a soup kitchen and label soup
ladle soup because anybody can do that
yeah he said what you need to do is find
something's called technique what is
that skill that you're good at and then
bring it to bear
just like bhasin was doing when he was
sowing people up just like he was doing
when he was interviewing people and and
literally as I think through how I could
be useful in something like that it
would literally be bringing awareness to
people that did something in that event
to bring them on to extract like that
process of it like that's actually me
bringing my technique like just going
and I'm not gonna be better at rescuing
people from you know a water disaster or
anything like I don't have an efficiency
in that so the way that Toyota came in
and said okay look we can throw sort of
people at this but that's not we're not
engaging our technique what are we
really great at what and if I had to
guess the translation of techne is
literally like technical skill like what
is that thing that you've spent a long
time getting good at that now is
advantageous for people that's why I
open every show with that notion right
that you're going to acquire a certain
set of skills that can be of service to
something bigger than yourself so that
is such a cool example of them like
their heart was in the right place from
the moment they were ladling soup but
thankfully somebody said like we're
really not bringing the full weight of
what we know how to do and I tapping
into that is super important really
important very very glad you brought
that up all right we got a couple
questions from the audience and just a
reminder we're here on Facebook and
YouTube live welcome everyone this is
after impact the show where we unpack
the impact Oh from who is this week's
episode you're joining us you can ask
questions in the comments and we will
answer them this work oh we actually
have a couple comments from YouTube this
is exciting nice alright this question
is from and I'm going to struggle with
the name here Xena Xena Barbosa oh I
wanted that to be warrior princess it
really did Xena
hey Tom what do you think comedy or why
do you think comedy is such a powerful
thing and what's your opinion on bossom
Youssef and its plans to promote a vegan
diet Wow okay
yeah all over there so one I found it
fascinating that that bossom at the
beginning of the show if anybody's
watching closely
he says it's totally ineffective like
humor won't help you that yeah satire is
not the way out of this problem and I
found against an ideology right I found
that really really interesting and there
was such a sense of like defeat like
really think about what he went through
so he's a heart surgeon he's doing well
does the YouTube show blows up or not
overnight goes on TV literally becomes
like a lightning rod face of this entire
revolution crazy I mean that that's so
life-altering and it happens so fast
where his own family's turning against
him he's getting death threats like all
of it like just talk about a radical
radical change so you get like and then
by the way in the end he feels like he
did not thing like a new regime comes in
and they kick him off TV and and the
world just goes on and other than the
changes that he made to media feels like
I didn't really do anything which for
anybody watching what we're doing and I
hope they watch closely it's like that's
my fear right that will make all this
amazing content but it just won't really
matter and so my hope is that the social
commentary and social content married
with traditional narrative which has
never happened before like that will
allow us to really like make it stick
but like I share his concerns but then
by the end of the episode he basically
says you can't be afraid and laughing at
the same time and so I really believe
that comedies like the answer and I was
like what like I had whiplash from it it
doesn't help it's you know I'm really
blunt about that it's not useful and
then it's the only real weapon we have
and I think they're both true and I and
I think that's why like he doesn't have
a sense of whiplash and saying them both
and in the one hand it in the short term
in an acute solution it isn't right it's
not an acute solution that it it is
really something that takes a very long
time and really has to change at a
cultural level which is certainly what I
hope happens with what we're doing that
it's a very long process you know when
you look at how long Disney's been out
what they've been doing I mean it's
going on a hundred years now it's this
is a long time frame kind of thing yeah
to really change sort of the cultural
subconscious because it is by nature a
generational change and then for him to
be like but at the same time it is a
powerful tool because of that ability so
if you look at it in the acute you're
gonna feel hopeless if you look at it in
the long term I think there's really
something there and I think that using
comedy as a weapon to constantly like
erode its position as ideology is really
really important and he says you're
never gonna find I can't remember the
word he was a dictatorship or somebody
he didn't use that word but you get the
idea that you're you're never gonna have
an authoritarian government that allows
satirical comedy aimed at them because
it it does like you can't did you watch
guardians of the galaxy - no all right
not a spoiler alert by any means but
this is something in the movie so if
you're a super purist and you haven't
seen it stop there's a villain in there
called taser face and he's about to kill
this guy and to get him to stop from
killing him he starts making fun of his
name because that makes all of his other
people like take him less seriously and
I thought that's actually pretty real
like it's funny how it can rob you of
your power when other people look at you
as being ridiculous so nothing has
changed like you have the same abilities
that you had 30 seconds ago but now that
nobody like is feeling your power your
power actually diminishes so it's pretty
fascinating and I thought that was a
really great example of the power of
satire if people are laughing at the
government and they're not taking them
seriously it really if you can do that
consistently it really would over time I
wrote it okay that's enough on that what
do I think about his push for a vegan
diet I'm not a vegan I don't in her
vegan life only because I've never
fully explored it so I don't know from
people that I really respect from a
health and longevity perspective are not
behind a vegan diet fully now as I
experiment more and more with a higher
vegetable intake I can see that there
probably are real advantages to that but
I worry about dogma and food as much as
I worry about dogma in any ideological
form so I found it very interesting that
that's like a big push for him because
it felt so out of left field but I guess
it harkens back to what he's doing as
what he was doing as a surgeon like
obviously that's something that's very
very important to him so I'll be
interested to see like where he goes
with that and how much of a passion he
really has for and whether he's gonna
push it across the finish line or not I
think that the way people eat is the
cause of so much so many problems in
life I just don't know that a vegan diet
is the answer so I will say that I'm
prepared to be pretty dogmatic about
sugar so if that were his message like
I'd be all about it so I think he's
probably swung a little too hard in one
direction so you know but his intentions
are right they're good he wants to make
sure people are living a healthier
lifestyle he seems to be a person I can
rise above dogma so I think my gut is if
he were presented with evidence that
made him go okay it has a place but not
necessarily where everyone should live
all the time I think he would move to
that more moderate position so all right
let's talk about ideology a little bit
which was a big topic in this episode so
bossom does say that he doesn't feel
that satire can overcome ideology and
ideology Trump's facts all the time you
guys go into depth on that which i think
is fascinating so you haven't seen the
episode check that out what role do you
think that ideology plays today in
people's lives Wow where do you really
want to go with that like what's your
secret hope are you secretly hoping that
we go in on like political stuff or
political I would like you to talk about
because I know you've you've spoken
about this a lot that you know ideology
is is everywhere and is how people make
a lot of decisions so and and part of
what I think the mission of impact
theory is is to promote a certain type
of ideology all right so a little bit
about why it's so important to you how
you think it is influencing people today
and where we are it's ok so let's start
let's define where I think ideology
gains its power so this is one of those
words that I did not understand for a
very long time do you know what a
heuristic is a heuristic is a thing that
allows you to interpret it's like a tool
that allows you to shorthand interpret
something yes ok it's a rule of thumb
yeah so why people gave it the super
fancy name heuristic I'm not sure and
why they don't just say a heuristic is
literally a rule of thumb I'm also not
sure so a heuristic is a rule of thumb
it's something that allows you to very
rapidly like process data know how to
respond ok so we all have these rules of
thumb now that's where ideology gains
its power it allows you to take a very
big complicated world and boil it down
to something very easy to understand to
know how to react to to know which way
to go it's the filter by which you live
it's why I think everybody needs
ideology I think you need a code of
ethics or whatever you want to call it
but it's that thing that allows you to
filter out the world so when like things
get and you see this with money all the
time so let's just talk about money so
companies spiral out of control with
being parasitic towards that as
certainly before social media came along
it's it is such a slippery slope like to
make a choice based on profit instead of
value right because you're like well
does it does it diminish my value
proposition enough to justify the
decrease in profitability right so it's
like it's always like these little
choices little choices until over time
you're like what can Enron and you're
just doing all these like crazy things
and I like to think
that like I in fact it's way more
interesting to look at Enron ago they
weren't sinister that it was just like a
bunch of these little choices little
choices little choices about the culture
right it's way more terrifying yeah so
it's just little choices about like
wanting to protect yours and do great
things for the bit like I imagine that
this horrific end result started with
them like wanting to build shareholder
value who they saw as being on their
team right so it's us versus em and they
wanted to build something up for their
team and they wanted to protect their
employees and they wanted to look at
themselves and and then all these little
choices without a code of ethics or
maybe they have one but it's they didn't
realize like how it's just setup to
create a disastrous result in the end
like they don't see how that's gonna
exacerbate and amplify over time so but
it allowed them to like make the
decision so they know like their code
allowed them to mess with the the
accounting right so when you have like a
hard-and-fast bright line like I do that
which right so I do that which brings
value to my customer I do that which
brings value in the long run to my
shareholders and making sure that the
company is in a good position in the
long run like and then understanding
like what does that mean so let's take
it back to quest everything was driven
by is it metabolically advantageous
period and we were very okay with okay
we may go to business but we're not
gonna do anything that isn't
metabolically advantageous and our bet
was that in the long run that was going
to be better for us and meaning that we
would gain more customers people would
see that it was real that we would be
long-term reputation protective right so
there were just all these things that
came into the code and so there were
stuff that people were like what are you
guys doing because from a business
perspective in the short term it just
didn't make sense yeah because it was so
much less profitable we were choosing
more expensive ingredients but we were
doing we were saying okay well metabolic
truth metabolic reality is like our our
highest value it sits above
profitability so that was our heuristic
that was a rule of thumb that was the
ideology that led us like really go and
another piece of the ideology was
community we're all about community
celebrating transformation
right so those become the the like just
rules of thumb the you're in the midst
of a storm you have to make a decision
quickly
do you have ideology that lets you make
those fast decisions so speed is I think
really really important now you get into
the terrifying part of ideology is when
identity gets caught up in it and so
it's like my identity is tied to and I
talk a lot about being congruent with
your identity so if somebody is a
supporter like just to keep it nice and
easy to talk about to a Western audience
and I'll let you substitute whatever
thing you want he's talking about Bassam
is talking about in Egypt it was people
were fiercely loyal to the military
fiercely no and there was just all this
generational stuff around the military
was our protector or Savior or all those
it was almost its own religion oh he
said it's bigger than religion which is
so bizarre to hear from what I think of
as such a devout country so for him to
say look the people were ok when I was
making fun of religion they freaked out
when I started making fun of the
military that's so Anapa Matoo us in the
u.s. that it's like what so when he says
that like you know you you really can't
mess with that because it is people's
identity they're they believe the
statements that they say about this the
military is our Savior they're the ones
that are gonna protect us the rest of
the world is after it's like you put
yourself out there because you're making
statements like that and if you've been
saying for the last thirty years like
whatever a military dictator has been in
power like this is good for us and we
should be listening and you've taught
your kids that and then all of a sudden
somebody says anybody that does that is
an idiot whether they come out and say
it outright or they just make fun of it
it hits your sense of identity and this
is why like I talked about like what is
that fundamental thing that you build
your your self-esteem and your identity
around because that thing matters and if
that thing is something that's fragile
like that that oh I put all my trust and
faith in this person and I've been
telling everybody they're good they're
right well what happens when they do
something stupid right so that's why
I've always tried to build my dinner
around identifying the right answer like
what's that thing that's gonna move me
towards my goals being a learner being
willing to change admit when I'm wrong
because now there's no damage to my
identity my sense of self my self-esteem
when I go oh I was wrong in fact it
bolsters my self-esteem I feel better
about myself for being able to admit
that I was wrong
and that's huge but just to wrap it up
in a bow that's what happens with
ideology right is when you have it it
empowers you you can make fast decisions
you know who to say yes to who to say no
to who to vote for right it all clicks
into your your heuristic your rule of
thumb that thing that gives you the
where it's not mentally taxing to make
all these decisions like even think
about this I'm a Democrat I'm a
Republican right
that's ideology it's identity it gives
you something to say oh well who's the
Democratic candidate or who's the
Republican candidate I just vote for
them because that's my identity that's
who I am
so that's how it gains so much momentum
and then I mean if you really I'll stop
myself but like his whole thing about
fear and how fundamental that is for
people than that you tie that with it
also being a heuristic also being your
identity and it like taps into fear and
now you just get you get a wall of human
reaction that I would never want to be
up against yeah and what about people
you know I think this happens too is
when you are unconsciously holding on to
an ideology you're not aware of the
ideology that you're participating in
what do you do then how do you become
aware of that which you're unaware right
there is an answer and it goes like this
your subconscious speaks to you through
emotion and it will give you clues that
something is very very wrong and usually
that clue comes in the form of wanting
to avoid something being instantly and
noticeably agitated or uncomfortable and
this is why I say don't trust your
emotions and maybe the better thing is
to identify what is driving this because
it is your subconscious trying to tell
you something
so when it makes you a neat like I one
of the first lessons I learned about
my anxiety my anxiety kicks in when I go
out of my lane and I no longer know like
really what I'm talking about
and that's why you'll hear me like there
are some things I'll say with absolute
[__] conviction I have no problem
because like it is so real and true for
me and then other times would be like
hey we're now at the edge of my
understanding right like I'll I'll
caveat that because that lets my anxiety
then drops back to zero because I'm like
okay I've told people that like I'm
gonna process out loud like and then
hopefully you get some value out of that
but I now am no longer in a place where
like or I've now crossed over into a
place where I won't be surprised if I
contradict myself or if I'll say it
today but say something exactly the
opposite tomorrow because I'm really
building my thinking around this so
that's just one example of myriad that
we could go through where it's your
subconscious which can process a lot
more data and a lot faster faster and
faster as they say telling you something
but you have to do the work to like
really figure it out and most people
don't do that work they trust the
emotion they act on the emotion they let
the agitation take them over and so they
act agitated they push back they fight
against something and then in getting
out of that situation by pushing back
and fighting and you know whatever they
do then the emotion begins to dissipate
because they've removed themselves from
that situation and because it dissipates
they never stop to go hmm like why did I
react like that what's driving that and
can identify it can I do the meditative
excuse me work and I think it probably
needs to be meditative because you just
have to create enough quiet and calm to
actually hear the little whispers of
like it I think it's tied to this right
and that's how those like little gut
instincts bubble up but if you're caught
up in the grips of the emotion you
literally can't hear it that's great
thank you first ways all right we have
question from Facebook this is from
Mohammed ah do he says can you draw and
say everything with satire and when does
satire become something quite different
than its purpose well I think that's
probably a better question
for bossom and this is one where if I
tried to answer with a lot of authority
I would get anxious about because I I
don't satires not my weapon yeah right
so I don't I don't really know where the
edges of that are I think it's pretty
interesting that two of the the Great's
in satire have both recently bowed out
being bassem youssef and Jon Stewart
because I don't think they feel like and
I answer very specifically because this
is exactly what Bassam said that it
wasn't doing enough to stay and risk
everything right and I think maybe if he
believed that by staying and doing it he
could really change the world or even
just because one of the things that
occurred to me was when you could make
it here in the US and like through
YouTube you could essentially broadcast
in Egypt so he could still reach that
fan base but he doesn't I think he
doesn't because he doesn't believe that
it's doing enough at least not in the
acute like I was talking about before so
judging by that I would say that
definitively there are edges to its
usefulness I'm not the guy to figure out
what those are fair enough all right I
just want to remind everyone we are live
on Facebook live on YouTube
and I've just been told we have a
hundred and eighty seven people watching
on YouTube
whoa yeah that's big that's big nice man
YouTube coming in full force love that
we are here doing after impact this is a
show where we unpack the impact and
we're talking about we got it we got a
trademark that okay yeah TM we're
talking about bassem youssef which is
his episode aired yesterday you haven't
caught it check it out
we're also on a podcast so if you prefer
that medium then you can check it out on
you commute home listen to it ask your
questions here and if you are finding
value please share this content I want
to completely switch gears now and talk
about building a media company in the
middle of a place that has no
infrastructure for media yeah and that
was really fascinating to hear him say
like we had nothing there there was no
one who knew what they were doing we had
to kind of learn ourselves and learn our
and I want to see you know have you
talked about that and are there any
similarities to what you were doing
building quest nutrition oh wow
it's utterly fascinating what they did
and if you watch the documentary
tickling Giants you really get a glimpse
of like how hard that must have been for
them and that's the thing he's most
proud of like looking at his
accomplishments I'm like that wouldn't
even like make my radar of things to be
proud of but like that really resonated
with him and that I found that so
interesting like here's a guy who stood
up to a government that was killing
people in the streets on like a daily
basis and I was very very sad that we
and I don't know why this is something I
want to talk to the team about in the
Monday meeting but we didn't show clips
of some of the stuff that he did in this
episode and so like I talked about he
they arrested him because he wore this
really big hat making fun of the
president and when he turned himself in
dude he wore the [__] hat again like
really think about that they are
arresting you because you wore the Hat
you may go to prison and do you like in
any way shape or form sort of try to
lower the the tensions or do you ratchet
that [__] up by wearing the Hat again
like I have it's very in-your-face I
couldn't believe it I was like calm on
like now you're just like really
provoking people and this is in a time
where people who are being killed dude
this is not like some time of peace you
know it'd be one thing to do it here in
the US it's a whole nother to do it in
Egypt like in this very tumultuous time
yeah and despite that this guy what he's
proud of is the fact that he could
broadcast live on Facebook
and to get a live audience in like I was
just really really blown away by that
and it goes to show like when you have
to push through something when you
acquire skills the level of like
fulfillment that you have for fighting
through something for for gaining skills
and then finding that
a use for that skillset that really has
utility there are few things that are
more meaningful than that they obviously
did a great job one of the things that I
really really loved because and this is
the direct parallel with what we did a
quest in the beginning he said I didn't
hire people that knew what they were
doing sir wasn't anybody that knew what
they were doing we pulled this off
because we found people that were
passionate and that was exactly what we
did a quest we didn't know how to
manufacture we didn't hire people that
knew how to manufacture we hired a bunch
of hardcore hustlers and we all figured
it out together and it was that
willingness to like just push and do it
and go hard like to get better and to
not stop and I told the story before but
I remember the time that at 2:00 a.m. we
on a Friday night we were trying to
figure out a heat coupling on the
packaging machine come on dude can you
imagine a worse way to spend your Friday
night at 2:00 a.m. but I was in such a
good mood because I was like this is why
we're gonna succeed because in this
moment we don't find an excuse to stop
we find a way and these cliche sayings
like people that are successful they
find a way people that aren't find an
excuse right it's they're just so
[__] true like it is so true like you
just find a way to pull it off and you
don't accept excuses and that's it like
that's how you overcome these Herculean
obstacles it's because you just you you
know to the core of your being I won't
stop like I'm just gonna keep going
until I find an answer if there is a
solution I'm gonna find it so I love
that part of the story and yeah that's
the the direct tie would you do it again
that way if you were starting from
scratch would you hire people who don't
have the technical experience but our
passionate are are the circumstances
identical to how they were yeah I would
do one thing differently I would hire
one person that had just a radical
amount of experience now the only reason
we didn't is one we didn't know what to
look for so now I would know what to
look for I know with that skill set is
called I know where to find them
and but the other thing is they're
expensive yeah and so it gets very
difficult because when you find somebody
who's really good what's the first thing
they want to do in fact I really want to
know if you know this if I find somebody
that really has massive experience
they're gonna be very expensive what's
the first thing they want to do and what
I've seen is they want to bring in their
own team there you go and what is their
team gonna be comprised of all people
who are experienced and who all have
trained in the same capacity and work
together before correct and they're all
gonna cost a fortune and people that get
really experienced they have this and
they've earned it I get it it holds them
back and totally [__] them but they
burned it and that is I paid my dues
mm-hmm so you go find that person and
say oh by the way I'm gonna need you to
be there at 2:00 a.m. on a Friday night
to fix the heat coupling they have
absolutely no interest in that so you
really find yourself like in this weird
conundrum where it's like I can't afford
your team I could maybe afford you I
could throw some money at you but now
I've got to find somebody who's willing
to like really roll up their sleeves and
get dirty again and Muslims do not want
to do a dude like they climb to a
certain point to like have a certain
type of lifestyle that works certain
number of hours and to find people that
really are prepared deep in their career
where they have a ton of knowledge that
they know they can monetize find
somebody that wants to take the risk and
be entrepreneurial like good [__]
luck it's so hard but I would because we
all have our superpowers and mine is
being able to paint a picture for where
we're going how we're gonna get there
and that that's gonna be lucrative and
you know me like I'm a big believer
making sure other people have ownership
in the company for that exact reason
right so and uh yeah so I would get one
person who was total linchpin who really
understood what they were doing so that
I didn't have to make as many stupid
mistakes as I was making but I would
still in the beginning hire an army of
hustlers but I would start finding
professional managers way sooner than I
did I felt such an overwhelming sense of
obligation to the hustlers that I
carried them beyond the point where they
could feel good about what they were
doing is they were just so far in over
their head and I wanted them all to
and like just crush it and gain a skill
set and like sell the way that I think
about it sell your 20s and your 30s for
pure skills and that just the I'm gonna
say it's less than 2% of people that are
prepared to do that
so 98% of the people it was in the
beginning I gave them hope and it was
beautiful and like they loved it and but
then we were as a company just growing
and learning so fast that they started
then I helped them find themselves and
feel amazing and powerful and then they
started to feel stupid and it started to
erode and they were getting surpassed
and I just wasn't good enough at that
time to like help them find a great
place where they could feel good about
themselves in the organization or by the
way help them go somewhere else where
they could be more matched for where
they were and grow a little bit more
slowly and at a more measured pace so
many mistakes were made and all by me so
extreme ownership extreme ownership do
you think that one person could be a
consultant yeah yes consultants can be
helpful I've never been a huge believer
in consultants only because you're gonna
be one of many to them and they're not
gonna be as invested as you want you're
not gonna get the kind of results
usually that you would like to get so
yeah I find that people that are all the
way in are way better because there's so
much pain for them to not solve the
problem so when they throw like the
first couple things that have worked for
other people out they tend to like back
off yeah it's like well in my experience
that works and so they just sort of give
their time and attention to the people
for whom the easy bag of tricks works
yeah that's always very disappointing
all right fair enough
reminder we're on Facebook and YouTube
live thanks everyone for joining us we
have about 15 more minutes so get your
questions in we are unpacking the
episode of impact theory with bossom
Yousef here is a question from YouTube
from screen name that blank guy Tom what
are your thoughts when bossom talks
about ideology we talked about this
already but he mentions the fact
since that facts and statistics don't
matter to them how would you go about
engaging with people who are of that
mindset awesome question I would not
engage with people that are of that
mindset
I am a filtering mechanism I am not in
the game of convincing people and Boston
does an amazing job of explaining why
it's attacking people's identity you
want to talk about a business I do not
want to be an in fact I refuse to
[__] be in is the business of
attacking people's identity and trying
to get them to change so my whole thing
with why do I think impact theory is
gonna work is because I can incept
your identity I don't have to confront
it head-on and I just want you to look
up two characters in movies and TV shows
and all that that you love for the
entertainment value oh and it just
starts to seep into your universe that
those people have a certain belief
system and all of the heroes and all of
the content that we will make they will
have either at the beginning or at the
end I was thinking about this yesterday
this will be fun for us all internally
to talk about how all of our stories are
gonna tell tales of the same ideology
right because in my estimation what I
have seen is there's one ideology that
is actually effective and it's very
nuanced and subtle so it's not like
blunt force trauma but there's one set
of ideology that will get you towards
your goals no matter what your goals are
so how do you then break that up and
tell it from somebody who already has it
but you still want a story so they're
not learning about it then somebody
that's learning about it all the way but
that's how you inset people I think
hitting them head on and saying you're
wrong it it has this weird effect of
invalidating their life going backwards
and that the way that people do that
that is such it is a damming game it is
the game of damnation in fact I think
there's a Clive Barker book called the
damnation game the damnation game is
when you believe that something that
forces you to change your belief system
and to accept ownership and look
backwards on your life and say it was in
some way a failing or suboptimal or
however you want to think about it if
that diminishes your sense of self
you're playing the damnation game you
are [__] yourself let me be really
clear like you were doing yourself such
a disservice
that's the litmus test if you go I have
30 seconds left to live and
somebody gives me a piece of information
that shows me that the way that I've
lived my entire life up to that point
was suboptimal if you're then super
stoked and you spend the next 30 seconds
being like oh my god like even in my
last 30 seconds I embrace this new idea
like you were on the right path my
friends but most people it triggers this
like domino effect of having to accept
I'm a dumbass like that's how they look
at it
oh I've you've just like caused me to
lose all of those years and I have to
rethink of myself and I lose all my
sense of pride that's that's what it
means to attack somebody's identity dude
no [__] way like that is crazy and
we've all met people in our lives that
have that reaction and you can see they
they become feral I was gonna say the
almost become feral
they become [__] feral and you want
to talk I have learned that lesson so
painfully because I was the dumbass
proselytizer that that was so changed by
this then it felt like a gift and I just
wanted to give it to people and the
people that I loved and I wanted to help
and I'd be like no but if you just see
like this will help you moving forward
and you can see them getting more and
more upset like right before your eyes
like what the [__] is happening right
now and so I realized that is a losing
strategy to confront somebody's identity
head-on does not work except for and
don't be lulled into believing that it's
a useful strategy by the 2% of people
that already have a willingness to
change so I'm a filter trying to find
those other people like me that like for
whatever reason like they just get I am
a dumbass and that's okay and every day
is about being a little less dumb and
have built their identity around that
those people are a [__] ball to be
around because one they want to share
without being an [__]
and look this was all my fault I was not
good at it I made people feel badly
totally extreme ownership I'm not
blaming anybody about myself
but when you find people that like are
really receptive like can I learn
something from you like that is awesome
because then they've got a ton of stuff
that you can learn from and so you get
like when to learners meet it's just fun
nobody's getting emotional and reactive
it's just fun all right
a couple quick shoutouts from our
friends on YouTube right now who have
tuned in Joan Ian Rebecca with love from
albania albanian Thank You Joanne zeros
I admire you a lot Tom I know this means
nothing for you but could you send
greetings to me kudos from Beijing dude
so it's Beijing saying there's ink all
the love in the world the Beijing and it
absolutely is meaningful I'm actually a
little horrified that people would think
that that wouldn't be meaningful so
thank you so much for showing up for
saying what's up and what's up right
back this community by the way like is
everything to us which is why I have no
voice because the way that we try to
show our gratitude is to be of service
and to be present and the reason that
when I do a speech or a Q&A session that
I will stay until the last [__]
question is answered is because it is so
meaningful that people show up like I
don't take that for granted if one
person showed up I would stay there an
answer every question they had like I
would do this is the [__] truth I
would do 9 hours for one person if
that's how long it took like if I held
an event and only one person showed up I
would do my 9 hours for that one person
so and I really believe that's why we're
gonna win by the way like we're just
gonna put in the work we're gonna make
people feel feel that we give a [__] not
like oh he says it like for real they're
gonna feel it if you encounter me 100% I
promise you're gonna feel it and that's
what I care about
also Beijing thank you what's up Beijing
and we also have Yusuf Raza says hi from
Pakistan it's not Pakistan dude our are
like group our community is insanely
global yeah it's crazy I'm shocked as I
consider myself hard enough to
understand for somebody who speaks
English as their first language so when
it's like their second and third
language I just think wowza
they speak English well cuz I'm
intentionally trying to talk fast for
the record yeah so I don't you huh you
want to talk in 3x secretly I want to
talk like in 2x because a natural
language is hard north of 2x I'm it for
natural like YouTube
- point - okay so like even I like it
three it's ah yeah pretty tough yeah
here's a question from our YouTube
audience this is from pong cause Joshy
hey Tom how does a normal person get out
from a default mode of thinking opossum
has a background as a doctor and became
a television personality usually the
common person doesn't have the guts to
do things like opossum I'm really kind
of freaked out by the question like
there's a lot of investment in being
normal common all that so if you're
asking the question already like you're
just in your language I think you're way
above normal so my whole thing is
virtually everybody is normal virtually
everybody is average so like literally
the distribution curve mandates that to
be true yeah so the vast majority of us
are very normal very average people so I
think that just normal people fall prey
to certain cognitive biases they fall
prey to things like identity wanting to
be congruent and they have such a heart
it I really really believe this is like
the secret sauce you want to know what
separates me from all the other people
out there pontificating it is all about
self-esteem what the person builds their
self-esteem around matters so [__]
much it will echo through everything
they do in their life everything and
most people build their self-esteem
around something fragile and it has to
do with what are they proud of like in
themselves and if they're proud of their
ability to admit when they're wrong to
be a learner to you know grow and adapt
then they're gonna do just fine and
Bassem has a learners mind he just has a
learner's mind and he's not afraid to be
the low man on the totem pole
and because most people watching this
don't know who he is like for one second
think about like the biggest celebrity
in your country the biggest celebrity in
your country not a big celebrity the
[__] biggest celebrity in your
country okay this guy was getting 30 to
40 million viewers a night every week
that is that's insanity
people don't get that here I mean those
are like Seinfeld numbers yeah
nuts so think of the biggest celebrity
in your
and by the way that Seinfeld numbers in
a country with 300 million people 350
like whatever a huge number much bigger
than Egypt so he's he the biggest
celebrity in Egypt and now he [__]
takes acting classes in like a Reseda
dude and he's like twice everybody's age
it is insane but he said he goes and
he's all in like he's he's not lamenting
the fact that he's not famous in the
u.s. like he just isn't missing a beat
this is one of those guys like I really
want like I'm just gonna say it I want
to be friends with bass music like I
want to be friends this guy is so
interesting to me like like I really
want him a hanging out yeah he said in
the interview he goes I should come here
every day and if you listen the camera
was a nominee but I said you have a
standing invitation legitimately I just
want to look over me like Bossin what's
up dude
like not doing anything but he's hanging
out at the [__] crib like this guy
more people need to know this guy cuz
his mind is just in the right space it's
just in the right way like he's got a
learner's mind have a learner's mind and
you can escape the what you're calling
is sort of the fate of the normal for
sure yeah and with that learner's mine
he's reinvented himself over and over
again and he actually says in the
episode that he feels that you've done
the same so I wanted to ask you do you
feel like that has been your path as
well reinventing yourself many times
over no question none of it was
premeditated this for me it all goes to
what are your goals so all of us here a
quote from something and it immediately
rings true and chills us to our core yes
yes all right one of those quotes for me
was genius as a young man's game Jared I
find that so unsettling because youth is
the most transient thing you will ever
encounter in your life you know I want
to live forever so now I'm looking at
things through that lens okay so I'm
like even if I don't live forever I
think it's pretty plausible that I hit a
hundred 120 right like with the way
medical science is going and I have like
a really good lifestyle and I workout
and I take care of myself so I think
I've got a shot like there are already
people living 120 let alone with the
breakthroughs in like organ printing and
all
so you're telling me that like my first
30 years or the only years where I get a
chance to really be exceptional like
[__] that I do not accept that so that's
one of those things that just really
really scares me so I start looking for
what are the things that allow people to
really succeed later in life and there's
this one guy and I can't remember if
he's won multiple Nobel prizes or if
he's just been in consideration for them
but in multiple like in chemistry and
mathematics and he says he intentionally
every 10 years moves into a new field
where he's not an expert and somebody
called me out on this by the way in an X
Prize meeting this was so [__]
awesome and so I just want to say Sony
Mordecai thank you
we were in this they were presenting one
of the things they want to pitch his a
prize at this upcoming event and as the
board members we get a chance to like
try to shape them in a direction that we
think is more advantageous and so these
guys are talking about the clean air
like how do we get clean air and they
had I'm probably not allowed to talk
about it they had a solution which
didn't seem right to me and Sony had
this vision that seemed right to him and
I had a different one and I was saying
Sony this is why your way won't work and
he looks at me with this little smile
and he goes because I was saying like
dude this is like my universe like this
is why I won't work right because it had
to do with something that I'm very very
familiar with and he goes an expert is
somebody who can tell you how things
can't be done and I was like oh like
it's so true and it just like really hit
me that's the [__] trap that's how
people fall into it all the stuff that I
know stops me from even pursuing avenues
that I think I have like an immediate
reason why that Avenue will fail and
because I I think I'm saving myself and
other people the wasted time of going
down that path I shut the door on what
may be the single most brilliant idea
right and it comes from a good place I
didn't want them to waste time right so
I'm like guys look I already know why
I've gone down that path and here's like
how it's gonna fail and so when Sony
said that
it just like brought it all back to me
this is how people get themselves in
trouble this is why you have to get out
of your area of expertise this is why
you have to reinvent yourself and I've
done it unintentionally it's all just
been like I'm trying to serve my goals
and one of my goals or the goals that
I've had the times that I've reinvented
myself is because that goal which is
outside of what I already knew so it is
a very very powerful concept I think
people should and this I'll say to
myself as much as anybody else like in
certain intervals you should force
yourself to learn something new 100% I
can't remember who was asking me
something sort of tangential to this and
my answer was go get really good at
something that right now you know
nothing about because in like exposing
yourself to something radically
different that you have to go through
that very arduous process of learning
about it will give you there I think
they were a writer or something and they
were like I'm in a rut like I've been
just writing the same kind of stuff and
I was like you need to get don't even
think about writing for a second go
learn something else totally unrelated
and get really good at that thing you
will be shocked at how that feeds back
into your writing mmm place move to a
different country like that new
perspective would just shake everything
up for you so it's one thing to learn
something new it's another to like
change careers or totally reinvent your
life do you think that people should be
intentional about intentional about that
yes definitely and I be honest like
other than your career is there anything
that you have the impetus to get that
good at no right it's all because it's
all on the line and you're doing it
anyway and you're there every day and so
you've got to be so good to not lose
your job I mean that that's just the
reality for most people is your job is
going to dictate the skill set that you
acquire and if you don't then change up
either what you're doing within that
company or change companies like you're
never going to have the incentive to
learn something new that that really
scares me right now I'm overcome with an
overwhelming sense of sadness for people
that live their whole life like that
that is that's unbearable to me to know
that that exists and that's where most
people
live their life that's really sad and
with that we are out of time for after
combat note that note good I'll go curl
up in a fetal position and suck my thumb
for a while at the thought of how many
people are gonna spend their entire
lives or you can re-watch the bassem
youssef episode on 2x and be inspired
and go out there and be hungry a much
better solution you have a much better
solution thank you my friend all right
guys thank you so much for joining us
and to everybody on YouTube live man
thank you guys for showing up and to the
entire community for writing in for
wanting to be acknowledged that is
absolutely incredible
insanely honored by every single person
in this community it means the absolute
world for those that join me in London
recently at the meet and greet the
nine-hour record-setting QA
thank you guys so much that was a lot a
lot of fun and I'm honored by your time
if you guys haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care
[Music]